---
title: metrics
excerpt: >-
  Recurly's new dashboard highlights key metrics (KPIs or key performance
  indicators) for your business. Each metric has a tooltip showing how it is
  calculated. This page contains more details on the importance of each metric,
  as well instructions on using the dashboard overall.
deprecated: false
hidden: true
metadata:
  title: ''
  description: ''
  robots: index
next:
  description: ''
---
## Filters

[Your dashboard][1] lets you filter the metrics you see. Currently, the filters available are:

* **Currency**: Filter the metrics you see to a specific currency. The dashboard defaults to your site's default currency. You can only currently see metrics for one currency at a time. Changing this filter changes all the metrics you see.
* **Plan**: Filter the metrics you see to a specific currency. The dashboard defaults to your site's default currency. You can only currently see metrics for one currency at a time. Changing this filter changes all the metrics you see.
* **Time Range**: Filter the metrics you see to a specific currency. The dashboard defaults to your site's default currency. You can only currently see metrics for one currency at a time. Changing this filter changes all the metrics you see.

**Important information about time range selection:**

“Last 30 Days” view is only available for the following metrics:

* Paying Subscribers
* Recurring Revenue
* Total Recovered Revenue
* Total Paid Invoices

Some metrics are calculated only on a monthly basis and therefore only “Last 12 Months” and “All Time” are the only time ranges available. These include:

* Subscriber Churn Rate
* Average Customer Lifetime
* Average Revenue Per User (ARPU)
* Lifetime Value (LTV)

**NB**:  the metrics are calculated early every day in your set timezone, so they show data current to midnight yesterday.

## Money

This dashboard contains 3 money-related KPIs for your business:

* **Recurring Revenue**:  The amount you’re making assuming all your recurring transactions renew, monthly or daily.
* **Total Recovered Revenue**:  The total funds recovered by Recurly's custom logic that would otherwise be lost, totaled over the last 30 days, 12 months or all time.
* **Total Paid Invoices**:  The sum of your invoices (including all charges, one-time or recurring) paid in the selected time range:  the last 30 days, 12 months or all time.

### Recurring Revenue

This metric includes any revenue generated by recurring sources -- like subscriptions and subscription add-ons. If you have the line item refund feature enabled, any refunds issued will be deducted from the recurring amount. This metric does not include one-time charges, taxes, or coupons.

The number you see is the current recurring revenue for today or this month, depending on the time range you've selected. Please note that this metric will not necessarily line up precisely with earnings at any given time. Rather, it should be used as an indicator to measure whether your business is trending up or down -- are you adding more revenue from recurring sources over time, or are you losing those sources? In the SaaS world, it's important to keep adding new sources of recurring revenue if you want to grow your business.

### Total Recovered Revenue

This is a sum of all the money recovered from declined transactions by Recurly's sophisticated credit card retry logic and automated dunning features. The number you see is summed depending on the time range you've selected, but you can also see on the graph how much Recurly recovered on any given day or month. Additionally, if you are using Recurly's [Account Updater][2] feature, this number includes money recovered via that method. This metric provides a clear picture of your ROI (return on investment) in using Recurly by showing the revenue recovered for your business that would have otherwise been lost.

### Total Paid Invoices

The total amount of money received from invoices paid in the selected time range. This does not include any outstanding or unpaid invoices. The number you see is summed depending on the time range you've selected, but you can also see on the graph the sum of invoices paid on any given day or month. This number lines up with the amount of money you book via Recurly. It does not include taxes, but does reflect any discounts applied to the invoice from coupons or credits.

## People

This dashboard contains 3 people-related KPIs for your business:

* **Paying Subscribers**:  The distinct count of accounts with paying subscriptions, monthly or daily.
* **Subscriber Churn Rate**:  The percentage of subscribers who canceled their subscriptions in a given month.
* **Average Customer Lifetime**:  The average amount of time people stay with your service, in months. This metric is calculated by taking the inverse of your churn rate, so the two metrics are directly related. Use this metric to see how long your average customer sticks around.

### Paying Subscribers

The distinct count of subscribers with at least one active, paid subscription -- this does not include any subscriptions in trial. The number you see shows you the count of paying subscribers you had as of the end of day yesterday, but the chart shows you daily or monthly counts of paying subscribers. When calculated monthly, you'll see the unique number of accounts that had a subscription that was active and not in trial at some point during that month.

### Subscriber Churn Rate

The percentage of subscribers whose subscriptions expire this month. This metric indicates the rate at which new and existing customers have canceled their subscriptions to your service. For more information, on how we calculate churn rate, please see [this blog post][3].

### Average Customer Lifetime

The average length of time people subscribe to your service in months. This metric is calculated by taking the inverse of your churn rate, so the two metrics are directly related. Use this metric to understand  how long on average customers subscribe to your service.

## Hybrid

This dashboard contains 2 hybrid (both people and money) KPIs for your business:

* **Average Revenue per User (ARPU)**:  Average revenue per user in a given month.
* **Lifetime Value (LTV)**:  The lifetime value of your subscribers in a given month.

### ARPU (Average Revenue Per User)

The average of all recurring revenue in a given month, divided by all paying subscribers in that same month. This metric is particularly useful when looked at by plan.

### LTV (Lifetime Value)

The average value of your subscriptions multiplied by the average customer lifetime. This metric shows how much you make each month, on average, from your subscribers for the average length of their subscription. This metric is particularly useful when looked at by plan.

[1]: https://app.recurly.com/go/reporting_beta_v2

[2]: http://recurly.com/features/powerful-results/account-updater/

[3]: http://blog.recurly.com/2014/08/better-way-to-calculate-your-churn-rate
