---
title: New PayPal Features
excerpt: ''
deprecated: false
hidden: true
metadata:
  title: ''
  description: ''
  robots: index
next:
  description: ''
---
Recurly has been investing in making our PayPal support truly best in class. On this page, you can find information about the upcoming features. If you have any comments or questions, please reach out to [Recurly Support](https://support.recurly.com). 

# PayPal eChecks
Refer to the [PayPal Payments page ](https://docs.recurly.com/v1.0/docs/paypal-payments#section-paypal-echecks)for information about Recurly support for PayPal eChecks. 

# PayPal Billing and Shipping address

Refer to the [PayPal Payments page](https://docs.recurly.com/v1.0/docs/paypal-payments#section-collect-paypal-shipping-and-billing-addresses) for information about improving checkout conversion using the PayPal Express Checkout Shortcut to collect shipping and/or billing address from PayPal (rather than collecting it directly from your customers) 

# New email parameters for payment method

In order to help you communicate properly with your customers using the emails generated by Recurly, we have added a few new email parameters. This will allow you to have conditional language in the email based on payment method. For example, if a PayPal user's payment fails, your "payment declined" email can now be set up with language that directs the customer to go to PayPal to update their billing information and resolve a failed payment. 

Here are the new email parameters that we have added:
* billing_payment_method: this will return the payment method (e.g. credit card, paypal etc...) associated with the account. Use this in combination with the existing billing_cc_type and billing_last_four. 
* transaction_payment_method, transaction_cc_type, and transaction_last_four: this will be populated with the payment information associated with a specific transaction. You specify the transaction ID in the parameter, and we'll return the appropriate payment information.

[Learn more about our email parameters](https://docs.recurly.com/v1.0/docs/email-templates#section-parameters).